en-GB/countdown-timer/Timer - notes.md, before:

---
title: Timer — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to use the Sense HAT LED matrix to display a countdown timer. They will also work with RGB colours and Python loops and lists. 

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Countdown Timer Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/timer-go](http://jumpto.cc/timer-go)
+ [Dot Timer Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/timer-go](http://jumpto.cc/dot-timer-go)

There are also Trinkets containing the completed timers:

+ [‘Countdown Timer’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/d11bf21615](https://trinket.io/python/d11bf21615)
+ [‘Dot Timer’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/dfdfcc6814](https://trinket.io/python/dfdfcc6814)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ timer/countdown-timer.py
+ timer/dot-timer.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ timer-finished/countdown-timer.py
+ timer-finished/dot-timer.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Loops;
+ Sense HAT display;
+ RGB colours.

#Challenges
+ Another colour - change the display to use a different RGB colour. 
+ Timer games - create a timer for a game or challenge such as reciting the alphabet in five seconds.

Commit message:

Added links to Digital Making Curriculum

en-GB/countdown-timer/Timer - notes.md, after:

---
title: Timer — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to use the Sense HAT LED matrix to display a countdown timer. They will also work with RGB colours and Python loops and lists. 

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Countdown Timer Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/timer-go](http://jumpto.cc/timer-go)
+ [Dot Timer Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/timer-go](http://jumpto.cc/dot-timer-go)

There are also Trinkets containing the completed timers:

+ [‘Countdown Timer’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/d11bf21615](https://trinket.io/python/d11bf21615)
+ [‘Dot Timer’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/dfdfcc6814](https://trinket.io/python/dfdfcc6814)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ timer/countdown-timer.py
+ timer/dot-timer.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ timer-finished/countdown-timer.py
+ timer-finished/dot-timer.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Loops;
+ Sense HAT display;
+ RGB colours.

This project covers elements from the following strands of the [Raspberry Pi Digital Making Curriculum](http://rpf.io/curriculum):

+ [Combine programming constructs to solve a problem.](https://www.raspberrypi.org/curriculum/programming/builder)

#Challenges
+ Another colour - change the display to use a different RGB colour. 
+ Timer games - create a timer for a game or challenge such as reciting the alphabet in five seconds.
