en-GB/wheres-the-treasure/Treasure - notes.md, before:

---
title: Where's the Treasure? — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to use the Sense HAT joystick to create a memory game. The Sense HAT shows a gold coin and you have to remember where it was and use the joystick to find the hidden treasure.

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/treasure-go](http://jumpto.cc/treasure-go)

There is also a trinket containing the completed project:

+ [‘Where's the Treasure’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d](https://trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ treasure/treasure.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ treasure-finished/treasure.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Sense HAT joystick;
+ Boolean logic;

#Challenges
+ Customize the game - use different colours or add text messages. 
+ Make it harder - show the coin for less time or confuse players by filling the display with coins after showing the hidden coin.

Commit message:

Added links to Digital Making Curriculum

en-GB/wheres-the-treasure/Treasure - notes.md, after:

---
title: Where's the Treasure? — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to use the Sense HAT joystick to create a memory game. The Sense HAT shows a gold coin and you have to remember where it was and use the joystick to find the hidden treasure.

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/treasure-go](http://jumpto.cc/treasure-go)

There is also a trinket containing the completed project:

+ [‘Where's the Treasure’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d](https://trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ treasure/treasure.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ treasure-finished/treasure.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Sense HAT joystick;
+ Boolean logic;

This project covers elements from the following strands of the [Raspberry Pi Digital Making Curriculum](http://rpf.io/curriculum):

+ [Combine programming constructs to solve a problem.](https://www.raspberrypi.org/curriculum/programming/builder)

#Challenges
+ Customize the game - use different colours or add text messages. 
+ Make it harder - show the coin for less time or confuse players by filling the display with coins after showing the hidden coin.
