en-GB/weather-logger/Weather Logger - notes.md, before:

---
title: Weather Logger — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to save data from the Sense HAT sensors to a file and then display the data on a graph with Pygal.

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/weather-go](http://jumpto.cc/weather-go)

There is also a trinket containing the completed project:

+ [‘Weather Log’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d](https://trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ weather/weather.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ weather-finished/weather.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Physical computing - sensors;
+ Data - writing to and reading from files.

#Challenges
+ Simulate different weather conditions - use the Sense HAT emulator to simulate different weather conditions. 
+ Record and display humidity or pressure - record data from a different Sense HAT sensor and graph the results.

Commit message:

Added links to Digital Making Curriculum

en-GB/weather-logger/Weather Logger - notes.md, after:

---
title: Weather Logger — Volunteer Notes
---

#Introduction:
In this project, children will learn how to save data from the Sense HAT sensors to a file and then display the data on a graph with Pygal.

#Online Resources

__This project uses Python 3.__ We recommend using [Trinket](https://trinket.io/) to write Python online. This project contains the following Trinkets:

+ [Starter Trinket -- jumpto.cc/weather-go](http://jumpto.cc/weather-go)

There is also a trinket containing the completed project:

+ [‘Weather Log’ Finished -- trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d](https://trinket.io/python/79ac6a377d)

#Offline Resources
This project can also be [completed offline](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/resources/physical-sense-hat/) on a Raspberry Pi computer with a Sense HAT. You can access the project resources by clicking the 'Project Materials' link for this project. This link contains a 'Project Resources' section, which includes resources that children will need to complete this project offline. Make sure that each child has access to a copy of these resources. This section includes the following files:

+ weather/weather.py

You can also find a completed version of this project in the 'Volunteer Resources' section, which contains:

+ weather-finished/weather.py

(All of the resources above are also downloadable as project and volunteer `.zip` files.)

#Learning Objectives
+ Physical computing - sensors;
+ Data - writing to and reading from files.

This project covers elements from the following strands of the [Raspberry Pi Digital Making Curriculum](http://rpf.io/curriculum):

+ [Combine programming constructs to solve a problem.](https://www.raspberrypi.org/curriculum/programming/builder)

#Challenges
+ Simulate different weather conditions - use the Sense HAT emulator to simulate different weather conditions. 
+ Record and display humidity or pressure - record data from a different Sense HAT sensor and graph the results.
